Update re-using.md (#166)
elixir-europe/rdm-toolkit: pages/rdm_cycle/re-using.md

---
title: Re-using
keywords:

> contributors:

Reviewer: contributors need to be added before merging

---

## What is Data Re-use?

> Data re-use describes the process of using available data for own, new research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data reuse describes the process of using available data for own, new research.
```

## Why Data Re-use is important?

> By re-using existing data you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By reusing existing data you can:
```

* obtain reference data for your research
* avoid doing new, unecessary experiments
* make research more robust by aggregating results obtained from different methods or samples

> * gain novel insights by connecting and meta-analysing data-sets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* gain novel insights by connecting and meta-analysing datasets
```

## What should be considered for Data Re-use?

One major challenge is to find data for re-use. Another point is that you should assess the quality of the deposited data before it is re-used.

> One starting point can be to use value added databases with curatated content. Other possibities include searching data deposition repositories for suitable datasets based on their annotation or obtaining data directly from the author. You should keep in mind whether the repositories provide sufficient metadata to enable data re-use. Some types of data you are searching for can be straightforward to re-use (e.g. genome data) or require extensive metadata to interpret and reuse (e.g. gene expression experiment data)

Reviewer 2: correct typo: curated

Author: Thanks!

> The re-use of data should be aligned with the intellectual property right e.g. by making sure it is available under a suiting license.

Reviewer 2: Correct suiting license to "suitable license"

Author: Thanks!
